So I just need to create a folder.
So let me get into the right folder.
We are going to call this project,
let's call it crypto masters.
We're going to get the current price or
rate from cryptocurrencies,
from a web service.
So we are going to do crypto masters,
by the way, this is going to be also still
a console application, and then we
are going to get into creating a server.
So this is going to be how to
consume data from the web, and
then we are going to see how
to serve that data to the web.
So we create the folder the next
step is always to create the module.
So we open the terminal, go mod init and
the name of the project that
we can make a URL based
name such as
frontendmasters.com/go/crypto.
Remember, this is just creating
a go.mod file in the root, and
typically the next step is
to create a main.go file.
Remember, the name of the file
doesn't matter, it can be any name.
The important part is to have the package
main and a function with the name main.
That's the only required step here.
So we will use a simple web service.
There are a lot of web services to get
data on cryptocurrencies, but we're going
to use one from cex, c-e-x, that has
the advantage that doesn't need any key.
So we can just point to the URL and
we get the JSON.
So it's pretty simple.
But if not, there are a lot of APIs out
there, but you need to probably sign up to
get a key and
then use the key as part of your request.
So to keep things simple,
we are going to use that one.
But first we will start thinking about
the structure that we are going to use.
So we're going to create
the data structure.
But actually,
you're going to start pretty simple, so
it's not going to be a big deal.
So I'm going to create a new structure
that we can call this currency, or rate,
or something like that.
I can do that in the main package but
we know that typically,
it's not a good idea to work with the main
package unless it's a very simple script,
and you know what you're doing.
But most of the time we want to package.
The package, remember,
it's just a folder with a name.
We can call these currency, or
rate, or data, data types, model.
In this case, it's up to you.
We don't have one way of naming things
here, so it's wherever you like,
let's say data types.
And within that package,
I will create a file.
Remember that file names
don't matter here.
So I can just say that
here I'm going to write
the cryptocurrency or maybe say data.go.
The name doesn't matter.
The only important part is
the package declaration.
That's the only important part here.
And then I can create here my structure.
I'm going to create a new type.
I can call it rate, I can call it crypto
rate, currency rate, it's your name, but
we know now, we are confident that we need
to start with a capital letter, okay?
So we know that, that's clear.
So, let's call that rate, and it's going
to be instruct that we'll have for
now just the Currency, capital C, because
we know that properties, if we want
those properties to be accessed from the
outside, we will need a capital letter.
That's gonna be just a string,
the code of the currency, and the price.
Remember that when we're
working with prices,
we can use float 32 or
64 based on the precision that we want.
We're talking about cryptocurrency,
we have a lot of decimals.
It depends on the currency, but
maybe it's a good idea to use float64.
But anyway, even if you're working
with prices in US dollars or euros,
that you have only two decimals,
float32 will be good enough.
However, I mentioned that when you
are using the JSON encoder and
decoding tool from Go, it will take
numbers as float 64 by default.
So if you set your data float 32,
it will be more efficient in
terms of memory management.
But then you will need a conversion
step every time you are reading from or
creating JSON, if you're reading
from JSON or create in JSON,
you will need to convert
those float 64 to 32, okay?
That is not a big deal but
you have in mind that.
So that's why most of the time we shall
say unless you have a very specific
requirements on performance and
memory management,
we use float 64 most of the time.
Okay, that's all.
So we don't need anything else here.
So actually it's pretty simple.
So now I'm going to create a new package.
So this is for data types,
we can leave it like that.
I'm going to create a new
package to another folder and
we can call this the API.
So the folder should be in the root.
So we're going to here store the API
related functions, types, and variables.
New file there and we can call this
cex.go because that's the name of
the provider we're going to use.
And here we are going to get then
some information from the API.
So the first package, API and
then I'm going to create an export that
function because it's
going to be exported.
It will start with capital letter.
So it can be get rate, for example, that
we will receive a currency as a string.
And it will return something, we will
see then what we are going to return.
We should return a right option.
So the one that we have just created.
So an instance of the structure
that we have just created.
So I'm going to refactor this in
a couple of minutes, so it's okay if you
wanna follow me, but I have in mind
that I will mix a little change later,
that of course you can do it also.
First, if I say Rate, it doesn't work.
Does anyone know why?
Yep.
>> Not in the same package.
>> It's not in the same package.
So Rate it's in a different folder,
different package, so
I have to import that.
And I mean,
I don't need to import it manually,
at least what I need is to start
writing the prefix of that.
So it could be data type, data types.
If you press Return and Save,
it will add the import for you.
But have in mind that we
need to import the package.
Remember that we are importing
the package, not individual elements or
individual names.
I'm not importing rate.
I'm importing everything from the package.
Everything that was exported on
that package is available here.
So if you like to have control,
more control on what you are importing,
maybe you need more packages.
So you need to change how
you're thinking about packages.
Maybe you can create really small packages
just for niche features of your app.
So don't use packages as you're used
to on other languages because there
you have other abilities
to control visibility.
But here, the only thing we have is
package and sport that are non sport and
that's all.
Okay, so here what we need to
them is that we need to use
the http system, so
we need to make an http request.
Fortunately for us, Go has http
directly built in in the language,
in the standard library, so we don't need
an additional library, it is part of Go.
We cannot build a Go application
that has no http library access.
It's there, by default.
And for that we have an http package.
By the way, it's http, but
that also means http with SSL.
So HTTPS as well.
We don't have a different one for
https, it's the same, okay, http.